Moving on we have seen says variables a.k.a. custom properties and I can tell you right away I really
like it as variables.
I like to use them because they give us a lot of flexibility.
Now the main point behind the variable would be the fact that we can store the variable and then we
can reuse it all throughout the docket.
Not a syntax would be dash dash then the name of the variable and then what kind of value would like
to hold.
And then if would like to use it then we're going to have the property and then again syntax would be
var.
So that is the syntax.
So please don't skip it.
And then here you need to go again with dash dash and the name of that variable.
Now there's gonna be two types of scopes for the variables.
There's gonna be the global one where we can use it all throughout the document.
And now we're going to return back to this selector.
Remember we're talking about pseudo selectors and in that case we're talking about the route where we
actually are selecting the HDMI element.
So that's where we're setting up our variables as well as what we can do it locally.
Just the one element now in our example again we're going to use mostly the actual colors or I think
maybe exclusively colors because they all gonna make more sense but just remember you can use it with
any kind of property and throw out the projects.
This is exactly what we're gonna do.
First things first we're gonna head over back to the normal as always we need something to work with.
So let's say heading and in this case I would like to have the class I'm going to say class and here
I'm gonna use the same hand in class.
Now technically we maybe don't need to even add classes we could have done this with having ones but
you know just because I like adding classes we're just gonna go with classes.
Okay.
First one is gonna be hitting one then we're gonna create another paragraph.
I don't know here the class would be I guess text and let's.
I don't know have some Lorem text I don't know 20 words I think that's gonna be enough.
MARGARET So far so good.
So we have paragraph and one having.
So what's next.
Well now I'd like to create a div where the class of main where I'm gonna have another paragraph.
Now the reason for that is because I would like to show you how we can locally scope this.
So I'm gonna say first that there's going to be div then we didn't they we're gonna have some class
and the class name is gonna be made and within this div there's gonna be another paragraph and again
just because I like adding classes it's a class and this is gonna be equal to the main text.
And again we can do the same spiel where any words please.
Thank you Emmett.
Now moving on after the div there's gonna be two more headings one is gonna be with a class of I don't
know second I think I'm getting this it doesn't really matter what kind of class names you have or you
can select later on with headings with the elements selector but I think I'm just gonna stick with the
actual classes so heading and I can just do it over here like this I can say that first oh yeah this
is gonna be heading then we're gonna copy and paste this so I'm gonna say one more heading three and
let's change the class here again just so you can see actually how this is gonna be happening we're
gonna have third heading now we have the main heading two paragraphs and one of them that is important
sitting within Dave and then we have the another right now if we're heading back to which email or I'm
sorry CSX assess then you know what for the time being I'm just gonna collapse this just so we can see
a little bit better what we're doing and then let's start by selecting the colors because that's usually
is is gonna be something we're gonna lose you see us as variables we're let's say that you found one
for the heading some kind of color and I'm going to say color hashtag EF 1 5 0 2 4 so that's gonna be
my orange color so far so good then also I have an option of using the text remember that was the paragraph
I'm gonna I'm gonna have the color hashtag three to f f and zero g and that was the green color and
I would like to also have the four main text.
So for this guy we're going gonna say main text and then I don't know we can use color hashtag 1 3 1
3 NFA.
So I have three colors.
Now what happens if I want let's say color for a second heading.
Well you can say you have many options you can either included here with the heading One or you can
just reuse the color again really pick and choose.
No Okay I'll listen to your advice and I'm gonna say second heading and I would like to reuse one of
these colors.
No let's say this is gonna be this orange one.
So I cannot again type color or we obviously could have copy and paste it.
There's no big deal but since I really like typing zero point you far knock what happens later on let's
say a simple example that I change my color I say you know what I really don't like this orange one
I would like to have some kind of color okay.
I mean it's easy I can just change it right.
You can say well change the I don't know variables say thirty nine and hopefully this is gonna be better.
So now we're having a darker orange color.
Okay but what happens when all the instances of this color now in this case obviously we have only two
of them we have the heading and the second heading what is gonna happen if you're going to have a five
page website.
Are you really gonna jump through every instance where you have the color and changes color because
it might be a little bit annoying or okay you don't have this case but you have another case where by
mistake you type like this.
You were typing you were busy you were watching TV or something and then it doesn't even match your
original color.
Another mistake or you know what to do.
So what would be solution and this is where they see us as the variables come into help where we have
a way of storing these values and then I can just reuse them all throughout my document and they're
all gonna be stored in one place so there's not going to be any typos.
That's number one and number two the moment I'm going to change it in my main setting whatever I'm storing
these values they're all going to be change all throughout my document don't believe me.
Let me show you.
And for this you know what I will gonna do a little bit more of actually commenting out because again
I don't want this to get in our way.
So I'm gonna save this.
I mean we already have covered this technically again.
There's no real point of saving these colors.
We have color the hex values just in case so you have everything that we're doing in a lecture.
I'm just gonna keep this in the comments.
However I will not collapse this because I think this is gonna be easier for us to work.
Like I said there's gonna be two places where we can store these values.
One is gonna be locally for some kind of element and the second one is gonna be global.
Now the global one is gonna make sure that we can access it everywhere.
And again we all gonna be going back to the room.
Now if you remember the road was selecting the HDMI home.
So saying whatever I'm doing right now is I'm working with HDMI out.
And in this case I would like to start with declaring a variable.
So I'm going to say primary color and again name this whatever you want the media the orange the Chicagos
the.
Again it doesn't really matter.
Are you gonna name something relay related to the color if you're storing the call value.
Probably.
I mean unless you really are a rebel or something you are going to use something that relates to the
value that are going to be holding.
So in my case I'm gonna say primary color and then I would say that I would want to store EF 1 5 0 2
4.
Now the key here is I can reuse where I would like.
So again I can say heading.
And in this case again we're going to use the color property but this is where that change happens because
instead of using this value I can save are gone that was this index to the ashes and then I'm going
for my variable.
Now at the moment we have only one variable.
So it's kind of hard to mess it up.
But in general we're gonna have five six seven 10.
It doesn't really matter.
Now check this out.
I have access to this color so if I would one for the second heading no problem just get the same thing
so I can say like this I can copy and paste it and I believe the class name is second heading correct
me if I'm wrong.
Second heading what do you see here.
And I see this orange color you don't like the orange color.
No problem.
Delete this.
Let's say this is gonna be hashtag 1 3 1 3 F.A. so all my headings are blue.
I hope you already see how much more beneficial this is than copying pasting each and every line that
you're working.
It might seem like no big deal to copy pasted first five times has been working with these silly examples
but the moment you're gonna start doing some kind of relevant work you can appreciate.
Yes those variables are a lot and I mean it's a lot.
OK.
Now we have this current one covered.
What about if we create another color and let's say I don't know.
Or you know what.
Let me show you another property.
So since we have been covering everything here with the colors why don't we create another one Why don't
we say main transition because like I said we can store anything we would like here.
We already have covered transition so we should be very similar to the shorthand where we have the all.
So this would be all the properties.
And I'm gonna say zero point three or four seconds and then the transition is gonna have the transition
function of linear so transition is gonna happen linearly now okay.
And what I would like right now is for the second heading.
And that's gonna be my element as I'm hovering I would like to have the different color.
And you know what.
Let's add a different color also.
This would be let's say primary and we're gonna have another variable secondary color and this is gonna
be orange.
So again let's say F 1 5 0 2 4.
I know I deleted it and now I'm adding it again my apologies but I just wanted to show you the blue
one and then got carried away deleted.
Now it's back.
Okay now as I'm hovering I would like to change the color.
And again I can use the VAR since this is globally I can access this anywhere I can ask is that in this
paragraph in that paragraph doesn't really matter.
Now I'm showing the heading but hopefully you understand the secondary color here I come as I'm hovering
this is gonna be the color.
Now also at the moment there's no transition as I'm hovering it happens instantly.
Well I don't want that.
So I can say transition again and then I'm going to be looking for what.
Well you are getting the syntax and main transition.
What's really cool again and I can add this transition if let's say I set for all of them zero point
four I can use this all throughout the document everywhere I would like one zero point five.
Later on you can add zero point five later on.
Obviously if you want to have some kind of unique transitions you wouldn't want to do this but in my
case I usually prefer just to stick with one transition unless there's really really something major
that I would like to change.
I mean not for every project but in general terms.
So let's say as you can see again the transition is happening so everything is working.
So we have successfully created the variables and we know how we can reuse them.
Now let's look with the local scope because so far we are just working with the main scope.
And again I'm not going to show you the example but we could access this year with the paragraph we
could access this in the text because the reason for that because we set up the route and the route
right now has these variables help you understand.
What about the local one.
Well the local let's say paragraph right now is sitting where this is sitting in a div I can target
the class.
This is gonna work exactly the same but I'm going to say it for div because I got this maybe it's gonna
be a little bit easier to understand but we could have used the class and in this case I'm going to
say primary primary read more you know just write like this primary red color and I'm going to set this
equal just to simple red color I could have used the hash value doesn't really matter but in my case
I'm gonna say the simple red color.
Okay what is within the div if I remember correctly within the day we have main text.
Okay so class name may text you go color is gonna be what.
Well I can use again the variable name right.
So are these index dash dash primary red and you are also right away saw two options so I could have
used you see the primary or secondary and I also could use this primer at the moment we save it sure
enough no questions asked.
We're having this paragraph right Okay what about can we access these values somewhere else.
So let's say we are trying to access this another heading the one that's all the way in the bottom where
the class of third any I mean we can always test it out we can say third thing it's gonna be the name
and for this setting I would like to access again the color as well as I would like to access LA and
let's try for primary red and let's see whether this is gonna work out and I moment i it nothing changes
mm mm hmm.
Does that mean this is gonna be local as com has always we can head over to our developer tools and
say inspect and we'll be able to see what's happening with inheritance so this is gonna be my body now
what happens on my heading one as I'm looking over it well I see here that I'm using the primary color
and all that but notice what's telling you inherited information AML inherited what.
Well we inherited that colors one color transition so far so good.
Now what happens with this guy with the one that's sitting within the main that we see here.
So we have a paragraph so what paragraph is inheriting.
Well it's inheriting two things it's inheriting from the day of the primary red so we can re reuse it
everywhere within this day and obviously since we set it up in our CEO says with a div understand that
I can add as many divs and this is gonna be scoped to those diff.
So this is just the way normal as this would work but it also has access to these values.
So if you want locally scoped you can create some kind of variables.
In most cases though I'm not a fortune teller but I would assume that you're gonna be probably setting
up everything globally within the rules.
And then just reusing these variables all throughout your project.